[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Robert Grant,
and this is the "CodeX."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The "Salvator Mundi" is a
crowning achievement work,
considered by many to
be one of the greatest
works of Leonardo da Vinci.
In fact, only a few years
ago it sold at auction
and is now considered the most
valuable painting in the world,
having sold at a total price,
including commissions and fees,
of $450 million, a
stunning value that
was unprecedented
at any such auction
for any such valuable
work of art ever before.
Despite all of
that, there's still
a lot of questions about
the true authenticity of
whether or not the
"Salvator Mundi" is actually
a work of art made solely by
the hand of Leonardo da Vinci.
Some believe that
it was really more
a work of art done by one of
his students or followers.
It is not clear until today
who actually made the "Salvator
Mundi."
I decided to look at it from
a different perspective.
The perspective I saw
it from was actually
that I now know that inside
of the "Vitruvian Man,"
the "Last Supper," and
"La Belle Ferronniere"
are hidden encryptions,
the likes of which
are all pointing back
to the same place,
the Rostau pyramids
in Giza, Egypt.
Maybe if Leonardo was truly
the architect and truly
the artist behind
the masterpiece
we call the "Salvator Mundi,"
we would find the same types
of encryptions that we found in
the other paintings containing
direct references not only
to the pyramid slope angle
but also maybe even
potentially to the notion
of alpha and omega, which we
saw in the "Last Supper," hidden
in the tapestry
on the wall, also
in Jesus and his
A-shaped representation
sitting at the Last
Supper immediately
adjacent to Mary
Magdalene, the only
separating space
between them being
an inverted pyramid of the
same slope of 51.843 degrees.
Let's take a closer look
at the "Salvator Mundi."
When we look at this
particular painting,
the first thing that
seems to stick out to me
is the difference in
coloration between the left
and the right sides
of this painting.
The left side, when viewed from
the observer's perspective,
seems to have a lot
more light in it,
as if a shadow is cast
on the right side,
from the viewer's perspective--
actually the left side
of the face--
from the actual
character of Jesus
that is in this depiction.
If we then take
that a step further
and try to analyze
what would happen
if we turn this painting
into a left/left image
and then subsequently a
right/right image variation
of the painting, might
we find hidden clues
to a deeper encryption,
the likes of which we've
found in several of
the other paintings
by Leonardo from the time
that he returned from Egypt
working with and for the
sultan of Cairo-Babylon?
As we look deeper
in this, we notice
that if we perform
a left/left analysis
on this particular painting, we
see a very light-filled figure
that has a wide neck,
a wide face, and in
particular a jawline
that is exceedingly wide.
We also notice that
the clothing doesn't
look terribly dissimilar
from clothing of the day that
may have been worn by
clergymen in some way, shape,
or form, albeit
slightly more ornate
and with a conspicuous X going
straight across the chest.
We also notice
the upraised hand,
which is the right
hand of Jesus,
and both hands now coming up.
The face very heavily
illumined and a wide jaw
gives the feeling of a
very masculine viewpoint.
Again, the alchemical
reference is the sun
versus the moon, which would be
a darker reference and a darker
overall stature and view.
So now let's have a look at
a right/right representation
of the same painting.
Here's a depiction of the
right/right reflected version
of the "Salvator Mundi."
The first thing that
sticks out to us
is that the face is
marginally less wide.
It becomes more narrow.
You'll see that there's
still light on the forehead,
but it's going more to
a point at the hairline.
In addition, the nose looks
markedly different and quite
a bit softer in its angularity.
Additionally, the face is
much darker on both sides.
Now some might say that even
the neck is very, very dark.
If we look to see
how wide the neck is,
the neck becomes
markedly less wide,
and the jawline is
much narrower also.
The dress looks more
like a period dress
at the time that a
woman would wear,
with large sort of
billowing sleeves
coming off of both sides.
And of course the telltale
sign by Leonardo himself
of holding two crystal balls
right in front of the breasts
or bosom of this
painting's character,
seeming to point to a
more feminine stature--
the narrower profile and
face, the narrower neck,
the darker colors representing
consistent themes of the moon
and the Eye of Horus.
Now let's take
this a step further
and see what else we can
find inside the "Salvator
Mundi" that might be hidden
from our cursory view.
Is there a reference to
the Great Pyramid embedded
in the "Salvator Mundi"?
And if there is, is it pointing
us to the same enigmatic slope
angle of 51.843 degrees?
Well one of the first
things I noticed
is the X. If we look at the
X in a different viewpoint,
we start to note
a different angle.
The angle that we see on the X
turns out to be 41.843 degrees.
Now most would not recognize
that is also related to 51.84.
If we were to try to
climb the pyramid,
the people that have actually
attempted that task--
which now today it's no
longer allowed to do so,
but in the past
it was possible--
would know that the only way
that you can successfully
and quickly climb the pyramid
without a lot of consternation
and huffing and hawing
and being out of breath
is to climb along the corners.
Why?
Clearly the slope angle at the
center of each of the sides
is 51.843 degrees.
But if you know to climb
at each of the corners,
the angle of ascent reduces by
10 degrees to 41.843 degrees.
This is known as the arris edge.
Interestingly the X depicted
on the clothing of Jesus
in the "Salvator Mundi"
is exactly representing
that angle of 41.843 degrees.
Additionally let's go a little
bit deeper into this "Salvator
Mundi" analysis.
Let's look at the orb.
The orb has within
it three dots.
These three dots look as
though they have some sort
of relationship one to another.
It is widely believed that the
three dots in this orb, first
of all, might represent
a positioning of stars
inside a very
prominent constellation
that we know as the
constellation of Leo.
I took it unto myself
to analyze this further
to see if this right triangular
shape could be found inside
of the constellation of Leo.
So I worked to try to
match this relationship
with the constellation
of Leo and found
that, in fact, the Leo
constellation is a very rare
constellation indeed.
It has as its center star a star
that is known also as Regulus.
Regulus is also known as
alpha Leonis, the alpha lion.
It is also the Coeur du
Lion, the heart of the lion.
Now interestingly
there are stars
that are not far away
from that that have also
different names, mu, epsilon,
and, of course, omega.
So now we actually have
within this Leo constellation
an alpha Leonis and an omega
Leonis, alpha and omega.
And what we notice is that
if we place these three
stars over the mouth
and neck of the lion,
we also notice a perfect match.
Not only is there a match
related to the constellation
of Leo, but if we place it
on top of the Great Sphinx,
we note that the positioning
of epsilon, of mu,
as well as the other stars
of alpha Leonis and omega
Leonis, all position
perfectly at key locations
on the Great Sphinx
in the Giza Plateau.
It is widely believed that
the original Sphinx, much,
much older than the current
version of the Sphinx
today, which contains
the face of Khafre, who
was the son of Khufu
and also credited
with the building of
the second pyramid
on the Giza Plateau,
the Khafre pyramid.
But it is widely known that the
original Sphinx was actually
the perfect form of a lion.
But what else is
it that Leonardo
could be trying to tell
us about the Great Sphinx
and the constellation
of Leo in particular?
And what we also notice that
seems to be somehow missing
is the X in between the alpha
Leonis and the omega Leonis.
X marks the spot in
most treasure hunts.
The X in this context would
lay beneath exactly the stele,
just in front of the Coeur du
Lion, the heart of the lion.
Is this pointing us somehow
to some mystery or something
underneath the Sphinx itself,
and in particular, left paw
of the Sphinx?
Edgar Cayce around the
turn of the century,
known also as The
Sleeping Prophet,
gave many, many prophetic
words in many sessions
while he was quote
unquote "sleeping."
These were recorded
in abject detail.
And in the context of
these different channelings
that Edgar Cayce was very well
known for even at the time,
he spoke at length
about the chambers
underneath the Great
Sphinx, and in particular,
mentioning the hall of records
underneath the left paw
of the Great Sphinx.
Is it possible that Leonardo
da Vinci has encrypted
some greater, more interesting
and more profound information
about the Great
Sphinx and what might
be underneath the left
paw of the Sphinx,
in between the alpha
and the omega, signified
by X marking the spot?
Let's now look at
fourfold symmetry
of these stars in this orb.
One of the things that we see
all the time in Cartesian plane
analysis, where we have
three planes mathematically
of imaginary numbers in
the negative number space,
and then we have one plane
in the real number space,
we can now mirror image this
in fourfold mirror symmetry,
or sometimes also referred
to as quaternian symmetry.
Looking at this from a
quaternity perspective,
we can see that Jesus
is holding an orb which
is going in four different
mirror reflections, as you
see here depicted.
As we merge those
images together
into one form, what
we notice seems
to be very, very important
information indeed.
It's pointing us
to a Templar cross.
Could it be that this
Templar cross shape
is embedding within it
another reference to the Great
Pyramid's slope angle
of 51.84 degrees,
matching exactly
the "Last Supper"
and as well the
"Vitruvian Man," each
containing those
exact same angles
in prominent, unmistakable
locations in those masterpiece
works of art?
The answer is yes.
The Great Pyramid fits exactly
into the same proportions
as the reflected fourfold
mirror symmetry of the three
stars embedded within the
orb depicted in the "Salvator
Mundi."
That, in combination with the
arris edge angle of 41.843
degrees, as well as
the understanding
that the "Salvator Mundi"'s
Jesus figure is actually
holding in his hands
an alpha and omega
to represent the
importance of the merger
of the masculine
and feminine, lead
me to conclude that
this is undoubtedly
a work by the master
Leonardo himself
that could only be
known through decryption
of these profound
level encryptions that
were so adeptly
and adroitly hidden
inside this beautiful
work of art.
The "Salvator Mundi"
is clearly the work
of the master Leonardo.
He has encrypted within it
not only the Great Pyramid,
its arris edge angle,
but also its slope angle,
just as he has encrypted it
similarly in the "Last Supper"
and in the "Vitruvian Man."
Additionally we also notice
that along his garment
is an X in between an alpha
and omega representation.
As we looked at mirrored images
of left/left and right/right,
we noted this symbolism
again about alpha and omega,
this time adding in the chi
with the X across his garment.
Additionally it all
begs the question why
the stars not only
are encrypting
within it the angle of the Great
Pyramid and the Templar cross,
but additionally
why is it pointing
to the constellation of Leo?
And Leo being a representation
of the Great Sphinx, which
has been a long mystery since
well before the time of Edgar
Cayce but including that
time through to today,
many around the world
believe that there
is a hall of records that has
been kept through antiquity
to today that is
found potentially
underneath the left paw
of the Great Sphinx.
>> Having made several
groundbreaking discoveries
of numerous enigmatic
encryptions within the works
of Leonardo da Vinci, Robert
Grant is keen to also share
what he believes are the greater
esoteric implications of these
discoveries, especially in
relation to the alchemical
path.
>> We've all been taught
throughout our lives that there
is a stark separation between
learning and spirituality,
unless, of course, we're
studying spirituality.
But we don't necessarily
believe that there
is a direct connection between
the study of mathematics
and spirituality.
We also don't believe that
science and physics will lead
to higher spiritual awareness.
And vice versa, we don't believe
that higher spiritual awareness
will lead to higher
understanding of mathematics
and physics, for example,
or that somehow music
is relational to
physics and chemistry.
And yet we now know
that the geometric
forms that we see resident
within all of the elements that
represent the universe
around us are actually
just musical representations
that we experience
through the sense of
our eyes and sometimes
to the sense of touch.
But what if all of it was
really truly connected
into one whole and
holistic experience?
Would that not be holy?
As we look at the alchemical
process and what these ancient
cryptographers left behind for
us to learn and glean through
all their many teachings and
wisdom lectures that emanated
first from the Egyptian
mystery schools along the banks
of the Nile River in Egypt,
back as well to the Library
of Alexandria, as we start to
understand what is the teaching
of alchemy and what is hermetic
wisdom, we realize that,
in fact, we cannot separate
learning and education from
spirituality.
It is only us that has
created an artificial boundary
of perception.
Once we get to
the stage where we
can see the higher wisdom
and the higher knowledge,
we no longer want to take
sides in this game of polarity
and right and wrong.
It's a transcendence
moving away from the need
to be and feel right
to the acceptance
that the only thing
that we really desire
is to come to the right answers.
The ego is stripped from us, and
we've integrated our own shadow
perspectives.
The alchemical path and
journey is an inward one.
It requires no one else.
It leads us to have to ask
more fundamental questions
about our own reality.
Maybe in this mind matrix
that we experience on a day
to day basis, the
answers are really found
within, and that the
real aim of being here
is to learn to fall in
love with this place
as it is, again,
always remembering
that the universe is happening
for me and never against.
Achieving this
level of awareness
is personified in
something that we
call the heart-brain
consciousness, balancing
the heart with the mind.
The logos must merge with
the pathos, and as a result,
we can experience a higher
order thought and divinity.
This is also personified
by the alchemical path,
another symbolism that
goes back to alchemy.
Now the alchemists
often were known
for attempting to
turn lead into gold.
This was often confused by
many because this was also
part of their
encryption as being
a sole reference to
turning lead into gold
and the art of transmutation.
It's kind of some
sort of elixir.
This work was called the
"great work" in alchemy,
or the magnum opus.
The alchemical bath
represents the union
of this marriage between
the left and right sides
of the brain.
It will also be represented
by a real person
that you will meet in this
life, in your experience, that
will represent all the things
that until that moment in time
you would have thought you would
never be attracted or drawn
to whatsoever.
And somehow you find yourself
drawn almost magnetically
to this other person who
represents the personification
or projection from your
own subconscious of all
those things, and usually
in an opposite gender form,
and will appear and become a
prominent figure in your life.
This alchemical marriage
is a necessary step
to learn to fully integrate
the feminine principle,
or, as the case may be, the
masculine principle to gain
the rebalance necessary prior to
a resurrection, which is often
personified by not only the
phoenix but the butterfly
and also an alchemical
reference to the dragonfly.
All of this is intended to
bring us to the shen, or xin.
The xin represents the spirit.
In Chinese characters
the xin is represented
by a Chinese character
that references
the notion of spirituality
and God returning to the Earth
plane, the horizontal line.
Achievement is made through
this 90-degree angle
at the altar of each of
our hearts and minds,
as we sacrifice, just
as the Apis Bull did,
to merge back in to this higher
awareness and consciousness.
These were the
foundational teachings
of the mystery schools.
Rubedo, which is also
sometimes referred
to as the marriage of the red
king with the white queen,
represents this merger
of thought process
and consciousness.
Often it is always
accompanied as well
by a group or a fiery mound
that is beneath a fiery phoenix.
The Scorpio symbol is
one that in astrology
has multiple meanings and is
the only astrological sign that
goes through several
different transmutation steps.
It starts with the scorpion that
crawls the Earth or the desert
and sometimes is referred to in
the beginning also as a snake.
Then as it goes
through life it starts
to transcend these concepts
and connotations and biases
that we all assign
to it to become
an eagle with clear vision.
The eagle's final culmination
is that of the phoenix.
This is the spirit,
or the xin, reborn.
The phoenix represents
the resurrection,
the death of the
old, the persona,
into the transmutation
of the newly formed
super-conscious
mind, the mind that
is balanced across the mind
centers and no longer seeks
judgment and polarity
of perception
and instead experiences
love for fellow man,
as well as sentient beings
all across the planet
and for the Earth itself.
This change is something that
can only happen as a fire
within, and it is the
preparatory process
that is required to achieve
the culminating magnum opus,
which is the achievement
of the philosopher's stone,
and how this story is relevant
to each and every one of us
as we go through this
transformative process
to understand and remember the
greatest encryption of all,
who we actually are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]